what's up guys so in this video I'm just
going to show you how I've been using
chat DPT uh alongside
um like Myspace repetition queue and
incremental reading queue
um if you're not familiar with chat GPT
it's essentially just a really smart uh
chat bot uh created by openai which is a
company that develops AI models so you
can go to
chat.openai.com and sign up it's
completely free to try they probably
aren't gonna
um uh provide it for free forever
because it must be costing them a huge
amount to provide this to us for free uh
but yeah while it's free but I encourage
you to go and check it out uh the final
thing is is that I've uh
been using this pretty interesting
script it basically just allows you to
use um voice input to talk to you into
the messages because it's a lot faster
yeah so that just makes it a lot easier
for me uh so yeah let's just uh get into
it I guess if you're not familiar with
uh super member by the way um
it's similar to space repetition systems
like REM note and Anki but
um it's really old uh I would love to
switch all of my stuff to Remnant but um
it's just kind of locked into here at
the moment so
okay so I've got an article on
recessive alleles this actual article I
think
um came about because I was trying to
understand how dominant alleles and
recessive alleles interact at the level
of um
like gene expression like how does a
dominant allele mask the expression of a
recessive allele because I don't really
understand this at all so uh this is
like a good candidate to talk to chat
gbt about so um maybe I'll just stop by
pasting the same
and like one thing that's cool is that
you can just say like explain
[Music]
like I'm five
like that's actually a really good um
like a pretty good explanation like your
five-year-old could understand that and
it actually makes it a lot easier for me
to understand
um obviously you lose a lot of detail
when you
um
simplify and explain by analogy uh
but yeah so instead of uh using like the
worker analogy could you explain it in
terms of like a programming analogy
because I do programming programming as
my day job so that might help so
Could you
um explain in terms of programming
instead
so it's pretty interesting but um in
this case I feel like the analogy is
misleading because the recessive gene
doesn't actually have anything wrong
with it or the recessive allele doesn't
have anything wrong with it
um
it's just that it's being masked and so
actually what's interesting is that um
you can kind of push back on what chat
GPT says so if you think it's um kind of
uh spearing nonsense or anything like
that you can actually say so
isn't that kind of misleading though
because uh the recessive allele doesn't
have anything wrong with it it just gets
masked by the dominant allele
okay so now I'm thinking like
a better analogy might be um
in programming you can have classes
which I have methods which are like
functions attached to them and um if you
inherit from a class
you can sometimes override
um
override uh the base classes methods so
maybe a dominant allele is like you're
overriding the recessive
um method or whatever so maybe I'll try
and say that to GPT and see if it can
come up with like
maybe an argument against it or or more
information expanding upon that I just
thought of a better analogy that could
explain dominant and recessive alleles
in terms of object oriented programming
if you imagine that there's a class that
contains a method which represents the
recessive allele
the dominant allele could be thought of
as existing in a subclass which inherits
from the parent class and overrides the
recessive allele
so yeah
um chat GPT agrees with me I guess
that it's a decent analogy now I could
ask okay now argue against that um
analogy like what's what are the flaws
in that analogy
what are the flaws with the analogy
about dominant and recessive alleles and
object-oriented programming classes
so Dan the uh chat TPT gives me a pretty
pretty nice wall of text um
describing one of the floors so what is
the floor
um
yeah I I still feel like the analogy is
good uh uh so what I'll do is I'll
create a flash card
yeah a simple way would be just say like
yeah that's like a common theme that I
found while using it is that
um
you're not necessarily
um like mining chat gbt for Concepts and
ideas and analogies rather you're using
its output to like fish stuff out of
your own mind that's already there or
that um
is like waiting to be uh connected with
something else and turned into something
turned into like actual knowledge so
so I think it's two to the N but I can't
remember why
so uh
uh yeah so this is another good use for
gbt
um
if I run across a flash card which I
where I think I've like forgotten the
like actually you can see at the bottom
so this means that um
uh I've I've failed this at least twice
uh and got it right once so it's not
sticking in my memory like I do know
that the answer is two to the N but I
can't remember exactly why uh
so this is like a good opportunity to
without revealing the answer at this
point yeah just start going through some
questions with
chat GPT to try and
um
figure out like the background knowledge
and stuff so I'll reset this thread
could you generate a truth table where
we're checking uh tautologies
please could you format the truth table
inside a code block
foreign
yeah now it's um
giving me the truth table for
some different propositional formulas
some very simple ones p and Q PL Cube
not p
that's weird but
um
Okay so
in the propositional formula p and Q you
have two
uh variables
and um
you have four lines that are required to
check if it's uh
if it was a tautology so if it's a
tautology you'd be checking that in
every year
uh every different
um
[Music]
every different uh like combination of
true and false inside these variables
they would all have to be true in order
to be a tautology and so
if I have two
variables and four lines
then yeah it's two to maybe two to the
power two right
equals four
um
if I want to verify that a propositional
formula
is a tautology
what is the time complexity
yeah over to n well I'm saying yeah as
if it's now true because GPT said it
which isn't the case often but
um
is there any way you could make it more
efficient to check whether
a propositional formula is a tautology o
of 2 to the N sounds pretty slow
see if it comes up with some garbage
so that's pretty interesting it's
suggesting that there's a
another method natural deduction or
resolution whatever those are
to
check if something's true
I'll just um
and I should I should make sure I
remember it's chat GPT set this
and um
yeah this is kind of a super memory
thing but um
if you uh
I can add some text in here and then I
can
give it a priority say 25. it's pretty
interesting I guess so it's Tuesday
yeah all right well I think that's good
enough for today I think that gives you
the idea we've had a couple of good
examples in there
um and yeah I encourage you to go and
try out chat GPT for yourself it's free
use it while it's still free won't be
free forever probably
so um give it a go